SHORT RADIUS, THE SKIER'S NEMESIS
"Short Radius The Skier's Nemesis", why this title?
Because the short radius is actually a nemesis
for most skiers,
especially the ones who started a few years ago, enjoing long turns carving skiing on easy and smooth ground.
Especially on crowded slopes and steep slopes,
short radius allows to perfectly control the speed.
A question that is normally asked to us is:
"How can I control my speed in short turns
on steep slopes, possibly with a lot of people around?"
Most skiers do 2 or 3 turns, and then maybe draw back, are not able to close the turns anymore, start to "run after" the skis.
Now we are going to analyse the short radius technique, trying to give you actionable advises and to spur you
to use your dexterity, because everyone has skills that is not used.
Let's now check out several times this great short radius run by Paolo on a pretty steep slope.
First of all, let's notice the sense of rhythm.
If we don't start with a well assessed rhythm in mind,
being purposeful to follow it at any cost,
a short radius is not feasible.
We can see it at normal speed
before going back to slow motion.
So the first thing is the sense of rhythm.
Second point: rhythm is maintained if the whole body moves coordinately.
Muscular contraction and decontraction and,
between the phase of contraction/closing the turn
and the phase of decontraction/beginning of the turn,
there is the pole's leaning.
So there must be a perfect coordination between
the foot and of the lower limbs muscles
and the preparation/the leaning of the pole.
A3rd very important element is the indipendence
between foot and bust direction. The bust must stay firm
towards the end of the slope, while foot follow
a very different direction.
This authonomy allows the body to be constantly directed towards the valley, while the foot turn,
helping the skis to turn, avoiding the body
to rotate at any turn following the skis.
The speed of foot looking for direction
and for the wriggle that is necessary to close the turn and to start the new one.
The foot must be quick in looking for direction
and must be quick in reversing, changing the edge.
To be quick in reversing, not losing time,
scratching at every turn closure,
when we are about to enter in the turn closure
we should only think that we want to "go away".
This wil let us start towards the new turn exactly when we give the right pressure.
We examined 5 key elements.
Now let's observe again this short radius
focusing at every run on one of those 5 elements,
without expecting to master all of them together.
Trying to ski istinctively, driven by the sense of rhythm,
we will gradually reach the ability to execute
very brilliant short radius runs.